From
Howard CR, Howard FM, Weitzman ML, Acetominophen Analgesia
in Neonatal Circumcision: The Effect on Pain, PEDIATRICS,
Vol 93 No. 4, pp.641-646. April 1994.:

     "The observed deterioration in postoperative feeding
behavior has been documented by other investigators. (29)
Infants feed less frequently and are less available for
interaction after circumcision.  Subdued, less interactive
behavior has been documented frequently and are less
available for interaction after circumcision. (6,11,30)  In
this study, acetominophen seemed to have no effect on this
deterioration.  Because most hospital discharges occurred 7
to 10 hours after circumcision, the data are inadequate to
assess the duration of the effects on feeding.  Neonatal
circumcision are often performed on the day of discharge
with many neonates leaving the hospital 3 to 6 hours
postoperatively.    Thus the observed deterioration in
ablity to breast-feed my potentially contribute to breast
feeding failure.  Furthermore some neonates in this study
required formula supplementation because of maternal
frustration with attempts at breast-feeding. or because the
neonate was judged unable to breast-feed postoperatively.
This finding is disconcerting because early formula
supplemenation is associated with decreased breast-feeding
duration. (30,31)  Because, the vast majority of male
infants in the United States undergo unanesthetised
circumcision, this preliminary observation deserves further study."



Ref:

 6. Marshal, ER, Stratton WC, Moore JA, boxerman SB,
Circumcision I: effects upon newborn behavior. Infant Behav
Dev. 1980;3:1-14

11 Dixon S, Snyder J, Holve R, Bromberger P. Behavioral
Aspects of circumcision with and without anesthesia.  J Dev
Behav Pediatr 1984;5:246-250

29. Marshall Re, Porter FL Rogers AG Moore J, Anderson B
Boxerman SB, Circumcinsion II: effects upon mother-infant
interaction.  Early Human Development 1982;7:367-374

30. Emde R, Harmon R, Metcalf D. et al. Stress and Neontal
Sleep. Psychosum Med.`1971;33:491-497

31. Loughlin,hh, Clapp-Channing NE, Gelbach SH, Pollard JC,
McCutcheon TM. Early Termination of breast-feeding
identiying those at risk. PEDIATRICS, 1988;81:365-371
