RE: NOCIRC-ND News Release regarding the latest announcement by the
American Academy of Pediatrics on infant circumcision. AAP New Release
posted 3/1/99 at: http://www.cirp.org/library/ethics/AAP/

North Dakota Contact People: Duane Voskuil 701-222-3777 and Jody
McLaughlin, 701-852-2822; authors of the nation's first genital integrity
law passed in 1995.

AAP Fumbles Again: Contradicts Itself

        After announcing today (3/1/99) that no medical reasons exist to
justify amputating healthy male prepuces, nevertheless the American Academy
of Pediatrics Committee on Circumcision (whose members include a physician
from Fargo Meritcare) concluded "...that it is legitimate for parents to
take into account cultural, religious and ethnic traditions, in addition to
medical factors, when making this decision [for their infant]."

        Thus a medical association, whose competence supposedly lies in
dispensing medical advice, postured itself as an authority on ethics, and
in so doing directly contradicted a federal law passed in 1996 that
criminalizes the surgical alteration of the genitals of females (FGM). This
law explicitly says, "...no account shall be taken of the effect on the
person on whom the operation is to be performed or any other person, that
the operation is required as a matter of custom or ritual."* This law was
passed a year after North Dakota led the nation in passing the first
genital integrity law, which as first introduced would have protected all
infants, but was finally passed in the same sexist form as the federal law.

        The AAP statement also flies in the face of the AAP's own Bioethics
Committee's position on the ethics of proxy consent: "...'Proxy consent'
poses serious problems for pediatric health care providers. Such providers
have legal and ethical duties to their child patients to render competent
medical care based on what the patient needs, not what someone else
expresses....The pediatrician's responsibilities to his or her patient
exist independent of parental desires or proxy consent."**

        The AAP statement fails to adequately enumerate the complications
of neonatal circumcision. These include meatitis, urethral strictures,
balanitis, hidden penis syndrome, complete amputation of the penis,
amputation neuromas (tumors) at the circumcision scar, skin bridges,
necrotizing fasciitis (flesh eating bacteria), sepsis and death. All men
circumcised as children lose the highly innervated, erogenous sensory
receptors in the foreskin and have the internal glans penis permanently
exposed and abnormally keratinized.

        At long last the AAP finally recognizes infants feel pain and
recommends use of dorsal penile nerve blocks and EMLA cream as anesthetics.
However, all anesthetics have inherent risks and none fully relieve the
pain of neonatal circumcision during surgery much less afterward.

        But pain is not the real issue. Were anesthetics completely
effective, a painless amputation of normal, healthy, functioning tissue
would still violate the physician's oath to consider first what his patient
needs, not what others want. Forcibly traumatizing a child's penis and
removing for life its normal function without the patient's consent,
violates his natural right to decide for himself issues of bodily integrity
guaranteed by the 5th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. It violates as
well his right to protection equal to that now accorded females as
guaranteed by the 14th Amendment and federal law criminalizing FGM.

        Ritual infant circumcision is not a medical procedure: A
physician's license does not permit him or her to act as an agent for this
social custom that is not based on medical need, but has always violated
the patient's human rights and personal dignity.
_______________________
* Federal Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996
Sec. 645. CRIMINALIZATION OF FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION.

** Informed Consent, Parental Permission, and Assent in Pediatric
Practice, AAP Committee on Bioethics, Pediatrics, Vol. 95, No. 2, February
1995, pp. 314-317.

web sites: www.nocirc.org, www.cirp.org/, and www.noharmm.org
