      This file contains the text of the original leaflet
published by the American Academy of Pediatrics in 1984.

-------------------------------------------------

Newborns: Care of the Uncircumcised Penis  [1984]

American Academy of Pediatrics

Care of the Uncircumcised Penis

At birth, the penis consists of a cylindrical shaft with a
rounded end called the glans.  The shaft and glans are
separated by a groove called the sulcus.  The entire penis -
shaft and glans is covered by a continuous layer of skin.
The section of the penile skin that covers the glans is
called the foreskin or prepuce.  The foreskin consists of
two layers, the outer foreskin and an inner lining similar
to a mucous membrane.

Before birth, the foreskin and glans develop as one tissue.
The foreskin is firmly attached - really fused - to the
glans.  Over time, this fusion of the inner surface begins
to separate by shedding the cells from the surface of each
layer.  Epithelial layers of the glans and the inner
foreskin lining are regularly replaced, not only in infancy
but throughout life.  The discarded cell accumulate as
whitish, cheesy, "pearls" which gradually work their way out
via the tip of the foreskin.

Eventually, sometimes as long as 5 or even 10 years after
birth, full separation occurs and the foreskin may then be
pushed back away from the glans toward the abdomen.  This is
called foreskin retraction.  The foreskin may retract
spontaneously with erections which occur normally from birth
on and even occur in fetal life.  Also, all children
"discover" their genitals as they become more aware of their
bodies and may retract the foreskin themselves.  If
foreskin does not seem to retract early in life, it is
important to realize that this is not abnormal and that it
will eventually do so.

=========================================================

[Cut-away drawing of penis with following parts labeled.]

      Outer foreskin layer
      Preputial orifice
      Inner Foreskin layer
      Frenum
      Glans
      Shaft
      Sulcus
      Urinary Meatus

Drawing reprinted with permission of Edward Wallerstein,
author of Circumcision: An American Health Fallacy.
=========================================================

The Function of the Foreskin:

      The glans at birth is delicate and easily irritated by
urine and feces.  The foreskin shields the glans; with
circumcision this protection is lost.  In such cases, the
glans and especially the urinary opening (meatus) may become
irritated or infected, causing ulcers, meatitis
(inflammation of the meatus), and meatal stenosis (a
narrowing of the urinary opening).  Such problems virtually
never occur in uncircumcised penises.  The foreskin protects
the glans throughout life.

Infant Smegma:

      Skin cells from the glans of the penis and the inner
foreskin are shed throughout life.  This is especially true
in childhood; natural skin shedding serves to separate the
foreskin from the glans.  Since this shedding takes place in
a relatively closed space - with the foreskin covering the
glans - the shed skin cells cannot escape in the usual
manner.  They escape by working their way to the tip of the
foreskin.  These escaping discarded skin cells constitute
infant smegma.

Adult Smegma:

Specialized sebaceous glands - Tyson's Glands - which are
located on the glans under the foreskin, are largely
inactive in childhood.  At puberty, Tysons's Glands produce
an oily substance, which, when mixed with shed skin cells,
constitute adult smegma.  Adult smegma serves as a
protective, lubricating function for the glans.

Foreskin Hygiene:

The foreskin is easy to care for.  The infant should be
bathed or sponged frequently, and all parts should be washed
including the genitals.  The external penile skin is soft
and pliable and easy to wash.  IT IS NOT NECESSARY TO
RETRACT ANY PART OF THE SKIN TO WASH UNDER IT.  The
uncircumcised penis is easy to keep clean.  No special care
is required!  Leave the penis alone.  The body provides its
own protection because the foreskin is fused to it.  As the
shed epithelial cells ooze from underneath the foreskin.
clean away this infant smegma.  No other manipulation is
necessary.  There is no need for Q-tips, irrigation or
antiseptics. soap and water will suffice.

Foreskin retraction:

As noted, the foreskin and glans develop as one tissue.
Separation will evolve over time.  It should not be forced.
When will separation occur?  Each child is different.
Separation may occur before birth;  this is rare.  It may
take a few days, weeks, months or even years.  THIS IS
NORMAL.  Although most foreskins are retracted by age 5
there is no need for concern even after a longer period.  No
harm will come in leaving the foreskin alone.

Testing foreskin retraction:

To test foreskin retraction occasionally, hold the penile
shaft with one hand and with the other hand, push the
foreskin back  GENTLY - NEVER FORCIBLY - perhaps 1/8 of an
inch.  Retraction may also be done with one hand pushing the
shaft skin toward the abdomen.  This will automatically
retract the foreskin.

If there is any DISCOMFORT in your baby or if you feel
resistance, stop.  Try again in a few months.  If the
retraction is easy for both the child and the parent,
further retraction may be attempted in due time.  There
should be no rush to retract.  Eventually, the foreskin will
retract completely, exposing the entire glans.  This may
take several years.

Hygiene of the Fully Retracted Foreskin:

For the first few years, an occasional retraction with
cleansing beneath is sufficient.

Penile hygiene will later become a part of a child's total
body hygiene, including hair shampooing, cleansing the folds
of the ear and brushing teeth.  At puberty, the male should
be taught the importance of retracting the foreskin and
cleaning beneath during his daily bathe.

Summary:

Care of the uncircumcised boy is quite easy.
"Leave it alone" is good advice.  External washing and
rinsing on a daily basis is all that is required.  Do not
retract the foreskin in an infant as it is almost always
attached to the glans.  Forcing the foreskin back may harm
the penis, causing pain, bleeding, and possibly adhesions.
The natural separation of the foreskin from the glans may
take many years.  After puberty, the adult male learns to
retract the foreskin and cleanse under it on a daily basis.


Copyright 1984 by the American Academy of Pediatrics.

(Courtesy of Childbirth Education foundation, P. O. Box 251,
Oxford, PA  19363)
