Barongo, L.R., Borgdorff, M.W., Mosha, F.F., Nicoll, A., Grosskurth, H.,
Senkoro, K.P., Newell, J.N., Changalucha, J., Klokke, A.H., and Killewo, J.Z.
The epidemiology of HIV-1 infection in urban areas, roadside settlements and
rural villages in Mwanza Region, Tanzania. AIDS 6:1521-1528, 1992.
Abstract : National Institute for Medical Research, Mwanza, Tanzania OBJECTIVE:
To determine the prevalence of HIV-1 infection and to identify the most
important risk factors for infection. DESIGN: A cross-sectional population
survey carried out in 1990 and 1991 in Mwanza Region, Tanzania. METHODS: Adults
aged 15-54 years were selected from the region (population, 2 million) by
stratified random cluster sampling: 2434 from 20 rural villages, 1157 from 20
roadside settlements and 1554 from 20 urban wards. Risk factor information was
obtained from interviews. All sera were tested for HIV-1 antibodies using
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA); sera non-negative on ELISA were also
tested by Western blot. RESULTS: The response rate was 81%. HIV-1 infection was
1.5 times more common in women than in men; 2.5% of the adult population in
rural villages, 7.3% in roadside settlements and 11.8% in town were infected.
HIV-1 infection occurred mostly in women aged 15-34 years and men aged 25-44
years. It was associated with being separated or widowed, multiple sex
partners, presence of syphilis antibodies, history of genital discharge or
genital ulcer, travel to Mwanza town, and receiving injections during the
previous 12 months, but not with male circumcision. CONCLUSION: This study
confirms that HIV-1 infection in this region in East Africa is more common in
women than in men. The results are consistent with the spread of HIV-1
infection along the main roads. There is no evidence that lack of circumcision
is a risk factor in this population.
