Chao, A., Bulterys, M., Musanganire, F., Habimana, P., Nawrocki, P., Taylor,
E., Dushimimana, A., and Saah, A. Risk factors associated with prevalent HIV-1
infection among pregnant women in Rwanda. National University of Rwanda-Johns
Hopkins University AIDS Research Team. Int.J.Epidemiol. 23:371-380, 1994.
Abstract : Department of Epidemiology, School of Hygiene and Public Health,
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21205 This study evaluated risk factors
associated with prevalent HIV-1 infection among pregnant women in a semi-rural
but densely populated area surrounding the town of Butare in Rwanda. Overall
seroprevalence was 9.3% in 5690 pregnant women who sought antenatal care at one
of five health centres. Factors associated with higher seroprevalence of HIV-1
included history of multiple sexual partners, history of at least one sexually
transmitted disease (STD), relatively high socioeconomic status (SES), being
unmarried, young age at first pregnancy, and low gravidity. Women who had used
oral contraceptives, smoked more than one cigarette per day, whose partners
were circumcised, and had had sex to support themselves were also at higher
risk of being infected. A history of blood transfusion in the past 5 years was
not associated with HIV-1 infection. History of multiple sexual partners,
history of STD, high household income, partner circumcision, and past oral
contraceptive use remained strongly associated with HIV-1 infection even when
simultaneously controlling for other covariates. Among legally married women
who lacked sexual behaviour risk factors, history of STD, high SES, young age
at first pregnancy, and low gravidity were significantly associated with HIV-1
seroprevalence.
