Carael, M., Van de Perre, P.H., Lepage, P.H., Allen, S., Nsengumuremyi, F., Van
Goethem, C., Ntahorutaba, M., Nzaramba, D., and Clumeck, N. Human
immunodeficiency virus transmission among heterosexual couples in Central
Africa. AIDS 2:201-205, 1988.
Abstract : Institute for Sociology, Free University of Brussels, Belgium From
February to June 1986, 150 heterosexual couples with at least one
HIV-seropositive member were recruited in the 'Centre Hospitalier de Kigali',
Kigali, Rwanda. Of the 138 HIV-seropositive couples in whom both members were
tested, 124 (90%) were sexual unions between two antibody-positive partners,
illustrating the high efficiency of the heterosexual transmission of HIV. A
comparison of these 124 couples with 150 HIV-seronegative couples showed that,
in the husbands, seropositivity is significantly associated with sexual
contacts with prostitutes and history of sexually transmitted disease (STD)
within the past 2 years. Seropositive wives were less likely to be in their
first marriage and reported more episodes of STD than seronegative ones.
Seropositive couples were similar to seronegatives in their history of blood
transfusion, male circumcision and overall use of contraception but not in
their use of oral contraceptive pills, which was more frequent; they were more
often in polygamous unions. Discriminant analysis showed that STD, sexual
contacts with prostitutes and the number of previous unions are the most
powerful independent variables associated with the seropositivity of the
couples. Most of the risk factors for the couples were the risk factors for the
husband, suggesting that in most cases the husband acquired the HIV infection
and passed it to his wife.
