
--PART.BOUNDARY.0.419.mail04.mail.aol.com.818512393
Content-ID: <0_419_818512393@mail04.mail.aol.com.5332>
Content-type: text/plain

Foreskins For Sale (See attachment.)

--PART.BOUNDARY.0.419.mail04.mail.aol.com.818512393
Content-ID: <0_419_818512393@mail04.mail.aol.com.5333>
Content-type: text/plain;
	name="F4SALE-"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable

FORESKINS FOR SALE
=0D
      "ICCPR's [International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights, UN GA Resolution 2200 A (XXI)] slavery, forced labor,
and traffic in persons includes the industry of a growing
number of American medical hospitals and medical professionals
colluding with scientific agencies harvesting neonatal
foreskins for skin grafts, i.e., as compulsory organ donation.
Associations like Organogenesis (Canton, MA) have received
approval from the USA's Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for
its foreskin-based GraftskinTM, and has served Western
Pennsylvania Hospital, with additional studies conducted at
Yale University and Boston University (Stephen Brewer, New
Skin Twin Life- and Look-Saver. Longevity September 1992: 18).
Another profit-oriented tissue engineering company, Advanced
Tissue Sciences (La Jolla, CA), retrieves foreskins from
hospitals so one foreskin can create 250,000 square feet of
dermis. . . . [T]he annual market for dermis could be $1
billion to $2 billion. Advanced Tissue Sciences has sold about
$1 million worth of cultured dermis to Proctor & Gamble,
Helene Curtis, and other such businesses for pre-market
testing. Advanced Tissue Science's foreskin-derived
merchandise held a $32 million stock offering in the beginning
of 1992 (Julie Pitta. Biosynthetics. Forbes 10 May 1993:
170-171). A Boston Globe frontispiece to its Business section
reads: Companies See $1.5b Market in Replacement Skin
Products. This article reveals another enterprise of genital
mutilation-cum-scientific advance: BioSurface Technology of
Cambridge, MA. All three companies face no shortage of
hoarding and retailing foreskins, and are motivated by
individuals like Dr. Tania Phillips, professor of dermatology
at Boston University of Medicine, insisting foreskin gathering
and cultivating is scientifically and technologically very
promising. (Ronald Rosenberg. 19 October 1992: 22-23)." (The
International Human Rights Challenge of Genital Mutilation &
the United Nations: Initiating a Global Dialogue on the
Transcultural, Multireligious, & Interdisciplinary Dimensions
of Appropriating Universal Human Rights Paradigms, by
Anastasios Zavales [Ecumenics International Press, 1994], p.
49, footnote 34)
=0D
      "THE WOODLANDS, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 16, 1995--
LifeCell Corporation (Nasdaq:LIFC) today announced the
culturing of human neonatal foreskin keratinocytes onto
AlloDerm(R), LifeCell's universal dermal tissue graft, to form
a fully differentiated, epidermal skin layer which was then
successfully grafted to an animal model. The research
demonstrates the potential for generating a durable,
off-the-shelf cultured skin graft product which exhibits
reduced complications from blistering or scarring, according
to Paul Frison, president and chief executive officer. . . .
CONTACT: LifeCell Corporation, The Woodlands / Jane Lea Hicks,
713/367-5368." (The Internet. Transmitted: 95-05-16)
=0D
      "One educated nurse from San Antonio told me they have
to save infants' amputated foreskins because the hospital's
Department of Oral Surgery uses them for reconstructive
surgery of the inner lining of the mouth!" (Report on the 1995
American Academy of Pediatrics San Francisco Convention, by
Richard DeSeabra. Intact Network Newsletter, 11/1/95)
=0D
      [I wrote to the American Cancer Society May 1, 1987, and
asked if it was true that one of the sources of the interferon
used in cancer research in this country was the foreskins of
circumcised human babies. A few days later, John Stevens at
the American Cancer Society called and told me that the answer
to my question was yes.
      How much does one infant foreskin sell for?
      How many have been sold?
      Who sells them? Doctors? Midwives? Mohels? Hospitals?
      Who buys them?
      Are there any "middle men," and if so, who are they?
      Are the foreskins sold "per foreskin" or by weight? (Do
circumcisers have a financial incentive to cut off as much
skin as possible?)
      Is a foreskin still marketable if it has been covered
with or injected with an anesthetic? (Do circumcisers have a
financial incentive to not use an anesthetic?)
      Are some types of foreskins more in demand than others?
(White, Black, Latino, oriental?)
      Are parents told that their baby's foreskin will be
sold?
      Are they *asked* if their baby's foreskin *may* be sold? =

      Who's the legal owner of a baby's foreskin after it's
been cut off? (Who's the legal owner of a baby's foreskin
before it's cut off?)
      Is it ethical to cut off a baby's foreskin, charge his
parents for the operation, sell his foreskin without telling
his parents, and keep the money? Is it legal?
      Are the foreskins of children and adults being sold too?
      Are other parts of people's bodies being cut off -- =

or out -- and sold without their knowledge or consent?
      Does Diane Sawyer know about this?]
=0D

(From Deeper Into Circumcision: An Invitation to Awareness, by
John A. Erickson. Reformatted as an ASCII text file.
Permission to quote, copy and distribute, in whole or in part,
free of charge, hereby granted. --JAE 12/9/95)

--PART.BOUNDARY.0.419.mail04.mail.aol.com.818512393--

