(repost of message, this time, I reflowed to a shorter right
margin. I keep forgetting that many mailers on the internet are 8
bit impaired and barf at text that nears 80 columns. (these
mailers are circumcisers, they keep cutting off the 8th bit !)

------------------------------

I have a couple of random comments based on some recent postings:

CIRC RATES:  (from: FORESKIN, A Closer Look, Bud Berkley, page 194)

AUSTRALIA: 1944: Circ rates of 90%
1980:Victoria: 28%
NSW 42%
Queensland:51%
Tasmania: 43%
Western OZ:38%

CANADA: (1984)
Newfoundland:0.4%
PEI40.7
New Brunswick12.8
Nova Scotia8.5
Quebec6.4
Ontario47.0
Manitoba35.0
Saskatchewan39.3
Alberta44.2
British Columbia18.5
Yukon20.1
NWT10.3


I heard that Ontario fairly recently stopped paying for infant
circs. Quebec stopped paying a while back.


----------------------------------

ABOUT CLEANING OF INFANT:

If mother cannot retract foreskin, how can she be expected to
clean her child's ears or remove dried tears from eyes ??????

As well, I strongly debate the "don't retract skin" views. I
think that parents should be told to just pull it back as far as
it can go *without using force*. And parents should teach their
sons to do the same.

Parents should be told that an unretractable foreskin is NORMAL
in children. The medical community should formally decide on an
age before which no concern should be made of a tight foreskin
unless it causes SERIOUS problems (eg: pain in urination et
serious infections). I vote that such age should be 11 or 12
years of age. Seems that an age of 7-8 seems more common as the
"if it doesn't retract, cut it".

I know mine couldn't retract when hard until a few months after I
started to "formally masturbate" between ages 11 and 12. It freed
up by itself.

Seems that in France, the age of 7 is quite common. Whats the
main difference between age 7 and 12 ? At age 12, the guy is more
likely to be aware of what happens and is more likely to WANT it
to get a functional dick, as opposed to a kid brought to hospital
by parents who feel so guilty that they can't bare to explain to
the kid what will happen to him and keep him un-informed.


WHAT IS IMPORTANT is for the father to explain to the kid by age
9-10 about his foreskin and what to do if it doesn't work
properly and explain to him about circumcision, and even most
importantly , tell the kid that circumcision is not necessarily a
mutilation nor necessarily the total removal fo skin and that
only the tight part of skin need be removed and that when not
complete/tight, a circumcision need not hurt since erectiosn
don't cause skin to get so tight.

If the kid is fully aware of his options, and if having a tight
skin is not considered a "bad thing/sin" and if circumcision is
not made out to be such a horrendous thing, then kids will not be
scared to tell their parents that their skin has a problem.


----------------------------------------------------------------------

ATTITUDES:

Growing up UNCUT, I always tried to find some sort of uncut idol
I could look up to. (either a succesful tall guy at school or
famous star). Needless to say, it was a hard job :-(

I feel that perhaps females should also grow up knowing that some
of the hunks that they are drueling over are uncut. For instance,
if Tom Cruise or Brad Pitt were "publicly" uncut, I think that
young mothers might be more apt to leave their own sons intact
since they would be like those famous guys.

That much of those hunks are assumed to be cut because they are
American only strengthens the decision to have son cut. Do not
understimate the power of TV and movies, they are the mediums
through which folks now find their role models.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

SHYNESS AND PURITANISM AND EDUCATION

I have met a guy who first saw his glans when he got circumcised
at age 30. His parents had NEVER told him to retract skin and by
the time he found out from other friends that skin was supposed
to retract, his phimosis was too tight and he kept postponing his
circ till he was 30.

Now, if parents are affraid to touch their son's penis and to
avoid having to do that, they are happy to have him cut, how
would the same parents behave if their son were left uncut ?
Would such parents be as puritans and not have the guts to teach
their son how to take proper care of foreskin ? And if parents
cannot teach their son to take care of skin, you'll find a fairly
high rate of later circs.

With proper education, I think that the foreskin is a non-issue.
If you don't teach kid to clean his ears, you are probably going
to see higher incidence of ear infections. So, it is not only the
attitude towards circumcision itself that needs to be changed,
but also the shyness and incapacity of parents to talk about sex
to their kids. (and convince parents that teaching kid to
manipulate dick to clean it is not considered "sexual
harassement" nor "SEX".

------------------------------------------------------------------

===========================================================================
.   STUDS BBS (studs.com) - San Francisco, CA  - Modem 415-495-2929 28.8k
    World-Wide-Web home page: http://www.creative.net/studs/
    STUDSNet International Gay Computer Network - Telnet 199.3.12.13
===========================================================================
